# Retinal-Image-Analysis-using-CNN

## Abstract
Retinal Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) involves the imaging of the retina using low-coherence light. The analysis of these images for eye defects is commonly referred to as Retinal Image Analysis (RIA). There are numerous demands for retinal analysis to be more accurate, reliable, and measurable. This project applies Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to predict the presence of Choroidal Neovascularisation (CNV), Diabetic Macular Edema (DME) and Drusen in OCT images. The model was applied to an image dataset consisting of over 84000 pre-labelled images. The OCT images were pre-processed by resampling using a random under sampler to handle the imbalance in classes. Image generation was used to feed batches of randomly generated images, based on the original images from the dataset, to the CNN classification algorithm. The model produced relatively high sensitivity (recall) scores for each class in the model; all above 0.9. The F1 score was used as a more generalised performance metric as it balances the trade-off between precision and recall scores. The F1 score for the classes ranged between 0.93 and 1.00.

## Conclusion and Future work
This paper discussed the application of CNN on the detection of CNV, DME, Drusen, and normal i.e. no defect in OCT images.
Majority of past work in this area focused on only the detection of one or the other eye defect. This project is one of few that focused on the detection of multiple eye defects. The model achieved an overall accuracy of 98% with an F1 score of 0.98, 0.96, 1.00, and 0.97 for CNV, DME, Drusen, and normal, respectively. A major advantage of the choice of CNN algorithm is that it takes the entire image as input, and automatically detects features that distinguish each class in the entire dataset as opposed to manually extracting the features in each class before training.
Owing to limited time and computation power, the model employed the use of down sampling which reduced the number of images in the majority classes to match the number of images in the minority class, as the number of images in the minority class was still sufficient for training the model. While this technique was applied to handle the issue of class imbalance in the dataset, the downside to this technique, however, is that there is risk of losing images with vital features which could be better used to describe the class. A more suitable approach, given more time, would be to apply down sampling = 0.5, which would reduce a smaller number of images from the majority class to avoid losing too much information from the said class.
